---
layout: post
title: "AWS: Configure S3 Artifacts"
order: 61
redirect_from:
  - /spinnaker_install_admin_guides/s3/
---
{:.no_toc}
* This is a placeholder for an unordered list that will be replaced with ToC. To exclude a header, add {:.no_toc} after it.
{:toc}

## Configuring S3 as an Artifact Source

If you want to use a file from S3 in your pipeline,
you'll need to configure S3 as an artifact source.  This is how you would,
for example, reference a Helm chart tarball for later use during
deployment.

This is just a quick walkthrough of how to configure your Spinnaker to access
an S3 bucket as a source of artifacts.  Many of the commands below have
additional options that may be useful (or possibly required).  If you need
more detailed help, take a look at the
[Halyard command reference](https://www.spinnaker.io/reference/halyard/commands/#hal-config-artifact-s3-account)

### Enable S3 Artifacts

If you haven't done this yet (for example, if you've just installed Armory
Spinnaker fresh), you'll need to enable S3 as an artifact source:

```bash
hal config features edit --artifacts true
hal config artifact s3 enable
```

### Add S3 Account

You only need to configure the S3 credentials as an account -- all buckets
that account has access to can be referenced after that.

```bash
hal config artifact s3 account add my-s3-account \
  --region us-west-2 \
  --aws-access-key-id ABCDEF01234... \
  --aws-secret-access-key # Will be prompted for this interactively
```

> NOTE:  If you are running Armory 2.1.x or earlier, the AWS secrets configured
> with halyard above will not work as-is; you'll want to create/edit the file
> `~/.hal/default/service-settings/clouddriver.yml` and add the credentials as
> environment variables:
```yaml
env:
  AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ABCDEF01234....
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: LXabcdef012345...
```

Detailed information on all command line options can be found [here](https://www.spinnaker.io/reference/halyard/commands/#hal-config-artifact-s3-account-add)

Don't forget to `hal deploy apply` your changes.



